Found this quote in one fiction novel titled "Because shit happened" by Harsh Shehanshu which currently I'm reading. The novel is about an IITian who pursue a dream of becoming an entrepreneur during his undergraduate & how miserably he failed. The novel is about what it takes not to be a successful entrepreneur. Don't worry, I will be writing neither book review nor my take on the book but more about above quote.


While reading, it took me a while to fully understand the quote but once it got into my head, it stuck there. Interestingly, it turned out to be one of the great success mantras of all time. People who are successful enough whom we consider as highly successful person in their field & look to them as role models did the same thing; they sit to do the work. Every day diligently they sit to work with focus & they were determined to take the job on hand to finish line. They've seated, practiced, improvised & gained new heights everyday to become great. It's a journey on which these highly successful people are still walking with same passion & energy.

Now compare such people with today's world, it’s very hard to find people who've enough patience to walk on such journey. Everyone wants quick results without committing necessary efforts on task. No one would like to wait in queue, everyone wants waiters to serve their order fast in restaurants, everybody wants to reach their destinations in no time (biggest reason of traffic in tier-1/2 cities) and the list goes on. With technology, easiness in travel & facilities, entire world has become a home now.


One person sitting in Beijing can talk to a guy in New York in jiffy (though someone has to compromise with sleep), people can travel from one continent to another within day & can see/talk to anyone through video. With social networks we feel close enough to our dear ones & at times, we literally forget the physical distance but even having all of it, do we find peace in our mind? Are we taking a peaceful sleep in night? Why something is always running in our mind & we keep jumping from here to there? At one time we're talking to one person through Facebook & at another time we're browsing online boutique for shopping. Why we need yoga to find peace? Yoga might have existed 2000-3000 years back but were people seeing it as a solution for everyday problem? 

We're truly living in an interesting time when things are moving really fast; it's good in a way that it has removed boundaries and made people closer but in other way it has forced people to get updated with surroundings & added clutter in our lives. We just want to get updated & know the things, instead of starting our own journey to become excellent in one area. 

Peace of mind will never come if we keep dangling. As an individual, we all should start looking for our true passion & things we love to do so that we all can start our journey towards excellence.